Now, I think where we ended rather abruptly
yesterday was that I was asking you to make some
comparison, if you could, between Scripps when
you came here and Scripps as it is now. Well, at that
time it was quite small. I think the number of
faculty at the time was 15. And it was all tightly
knit group and under very direct collaboration.
contact in research and thinking and development
with Roger Revelle, who was the director at the
time. Whereas now, of course, it's grown
tremendously. It is a huge organization. And
there is no longer the closeness and concerted
overall institute action that was possible at the
time. Did you think there was a, it's a poor choice
of words possibly, but do you think there was more
leeway or more freedom in research then than there
is now? Not due to institutional restrictions at
all. No, complete freedom then, complete freedom
now. I was not thinking so much of institutional
restrictions as I was thinking an ability to sort
of move from project to project possibly. Well,
that is always limited by the availability of
funds.
Probably there is more funds going into research
today than in those days. But science has become,
first of all, much more expensive to do.
Instrumentation and costs of doing everything
has risen sky high. And furthermore, the
individual freedom in seeking research projects
of fundamental interest has been very much
strongly curtailed these days in the country as a
whole than they were then. How's that? Well, I
think it's a long story. Essentially, the era in
the 50s and the 60s was a great development of
science in the United States after the war. The
country realized from the war experience what a
fundamental role that knowledge has in making the
nation strong and the sponsoring by ONR of
science. ONR sponsored essentially all
oceanographic science in those days. So
I undertake it then that you feel like that a
decrease in funding by ONR has in effect limited
one's individual research process. Well, it's
not that simple. In those days, essentially, the
nation saw fit. But through ONR, for example,
first and later on as the National Science
Foundation was founded a couple of years later, to
dramatically increase the volume of scientific
research in the country. And of course, that
growth could not go on forever. What happened was,
of course, in the very useful growth, there is also
a wild flora of less useful developments. And what
made the crisis occur, essentially, crisis in the
attitude of the citizen as a whole, citizen of the
country, toward science and scientists. was when
the illusions were broken, essentially, during
the conflict of the Vietnam War. And that is when
the
illusions that people had about the ethical
stance and the objectivity of scientists
And in addition, their responsibilities as human
beings were seriously being questioned. People
saw particularly that military support of
scientific research was not entirely a blessing,
that there were strings attached in some cases,
even though fundamental research was often
involved, and that the scientists essentially
went where the money was, didn't necessarily
follow what they were compelled to feel
ethically. And essentially, that whole crisis
then led to a strongly decreased confidence in
that scientists can be trusted with the
leadership of the country that people thought of
them before as some kind of omniscience.
perfected idealistic human beings and many of
them didn't come out that way furthermore
obviously growth must stop sometime and as a
result essentially there were some years of
terrible turmoil where everything was
reorganized and as a result it's very difficult to
Great difficulties were created in carrying out
some of the scientific research. And in the
reorganization, essentially, that has emerged
from that, the project research is what has risen.
I can understand that. The individual scientist
is no longer trusted with the judgment of what is
good or bad for the nations. Some scientists are
very good in judging that. Others are not. And
everybody has to carry the blame for the bad ones.
And instead, then, the emphasis is on large
projects where any single individual does not
carry so much weight, but which are also then
becoming often less imaginative, tremendously
burdened down with enormous bureaucratic
apparatus. And although, therefore, much, much
more money goes into science now than maybe in
dollars than in 1950s, or even 60s, the effective
input, I think, is much smaller today. You mean a
combination of bureaucratic costs plus rising
inflation? Rising inflation, bureaucratic
costs, the loss of imaginative approach that you
have when everything is molded into huge
programs, that are run from some kind of
centralized bureaucracy. Some of these projects
are very good, and they're in an imaginative way.
Others become characterized by tremendous
inertia and preservation mainly of business as
usual.
There is, of course, a whole spectrum of
judgments, possibly. But I think that's on the
average is a correct situation. Do you think that
the bringing together or the making of
institutions to grow in size, that's very poorly
put, but the increase in size of research
institutions has also created this concept of one
major project or two or three major projects with a
carefully designed goal? I don't think so at all.
For example, Scripps was already quite large when
this development happened. and was and has always
been a quite anarchic institution of a number of
different scientists with different ideas that
during the time when Roger Revelle was director
was all kept together by one spirit. Later they
were carrying on on their own and mostly in quite a
good fashion. It could be done. it was quite
possible to carry out, in that situation,
individual research projects of different size,
some quite small, one-man projects, others much
larger, and many of them depending on the unique
facilities here, the ships and other things.
So the institutional structure has not forced
this retransformation, the reorganization. It
is essentially the nation's way of thinking about
what the research is, what it's good for, and what
scientists are, and what they should be charged
with, what responsibilities they should be
charged with. That is what has changed. And it's
for the good and for the bad. Do you see an expanding
non-goal-oriented funds for, let's say, space
and oceanography in the near future? Well, in
space, there must be They must be goal-oriented,
because to go out in space and work, you really need
that. Their project orientation is absolute
necessity. Everybody can't go out in his own
spaceship and play around. So their profound
organization has to characterize everything. In
oceanography, the only organization
you need is the institutional one. The
institution holds available ships and all
facilities. It doesn't need any national
organization. a huge bureaucracy to do that. So in
space, that must continue. In oceanography, you
see more and more nationwide projects. Some of
them are very useful because they bring together
people in the same field, like the GeoSEX program,
for example, or the NORPAC program. But in others,
it hampers the development. There's this
artificial requirement that you must, for some
reason, bring together heterogeneous groups
from all over the place. Do you see an increase or a
decrease in international cooperation in
oceanography? I think the international
cooperation is probably gradually increasing.
There are, particularly through projects such as
IPOD, the deep-sea drilling internationalized
project, and there are several other ones, I
think, where at least some, there's some
semblance to international collaboration. And
in space, too, of course, there's some, at least
theatrical attention paid to the same thing, but
not in the, I think, in the truly scientific way,
but in some kind of public relations way.
Do you feel as if the developing third world
countries and their demands for 200-mile limits
and their distrust of what amounts to attitudes
and goals of more highly developed nations? Do you
feel as if that would begin to limit your research?
Well, that's an interesting question. First of
all, the third country nations have always,
that's a field where Scripps has always played a
great role in receiving scientists from these
emerging countries. nations and to train them
here, or to give them additional training to what
they have obtained elsewhere, so that they can go
back and contribute to the growing organizations
in their home country. Mexico, the People's
Republic of China, Japan, many people have come
here and learned, and others have come here for
collaboration.
The new regulations you mentioned on the 200 mile
limit, obviously that throws in another
bureaucratic
complication into the previously free roaming,
possibilities of roaming around free over the
ocean. But that's deplorable, I think. Any
increased bureaucracy is just terrible. But one
can also understand these countries. It is very
clear to them that there is no that there is no
clear-cut limit between scientific research and
what this scientific research is used for.
They've seen numerous examples of that. And when
they particularly have seen the nefarious
interaction or secret interaction of the US in the
internal affairs of various countries, it's
understandable that they're afraid. that
discoveries of resources in their territorial
waters, for example, will bring them into the
limelight as an interesting place where certain
things will not be allowed to happen. Or if they
were less important in the past, they would be
allowed to happen. So I can understand why this
paranoia is growing up. And the best thing we could
do as a nation, it seems to me, is to mitigate the
situation by increasing the trust and the feeling
of responsibility from the side of our nation that
these people feel. If they trust us, there will be
no difficulty, or not so much difficulty at least,
in getting the necessary permit to operate in
their waters or even to make permanent
arrangements.
Okay, now, in terms of space, then away from the
oceans into space for a second, do you see an
increase in international cooperation
occurring there? In space? In space.
Certainly at the level of international
discussions and
conferences. mutual participation, research.
But there's not much more you could do beyond that
because, again, the specialized nature of the
expeditions. There
could be USSR members of, say, cosmonaut team, but
there's less and less space research done with
cosmonauts. It's done with unmanned probes, so
there is not much need, essentially, not much
improvement that would be obtained by making
hybrid instrumentation
packages. In some cases, it could be. And there is
such a collaboration, for example, between the
German space agency and the USA Space Agency in the
exploration of comets, for example, where the
Germans have advanced power and the U.S. is less
far advanced and the possibility then for U.S.
investigators to place instrumentation on
Russian spacecraft and vice versa and German
spacecraft and vice versa has been quite
fruitful. I don't know if it will increase much in
that respect with regard to USSR. I think there is
still quite a lot of mistrust between the nations
and and also the interlocking, the close
relationship between military intelligence or
military applications of space science
and the information you derive from space
experiments, from some space experiments, will
add a touch of touchiness to those questions also
in the future.
Has there been, in your opinion, much uneasiness
concerning the close relationship of the
military and oceanography and the military and
space among scientists? Well, in space, first of
all, that development took place so late that the
country has drawn a lesson and kept rather
rather watertight separation between the
civilian applications of space science and the
military applications and the intelligence
applications. So with regard to execution of the
programs, there is no interaction at all.
The
justification of the civilian space program had
some overtones of the attending military
advantages. So I can say it was a pity that it wasn't
possible to man a scientific research program
without having that aspect contributing. But
that's not so bad, it seems to me. If something like
that could be helpful. In the case of
oceanography, Again, in
the case of the interaction of the Navy, for
example, with oceanographic program, I think
that's always been a very, very constructive
interaction. And the tradition in the Navy, not
only in this country, but in other countries, has
always been one of the most research-minded
organizations and research for its own sake. So I
think,
on average, I don't think there have been very bad,
particularly bad repercussions there. Of
course, when one thinks about the thing in more
subtle details, it has effects. One can always
ask, how is one's independent judgment of
political, military issues, colored by the fact
that you receive, for example, all your support
from a military organization. I think
subconsciously it
is affecting many people directly, so that their
unbiased thinking is not so unbiased. That is, of
course, a negative aspect. But it It must be said
that the Navy bears, the Office of Naval Research
bears or takes the credit for beginning and
carrying the early scientific armament,
rearmament in the civilian sense, in the
fundamental scientific sense of US
oceanography. And in the present situation, the
UNR has decreased its role substantially. It is
now, as you know, all the armed forces Agencies
have been forced by legislation
to support only mission-oriented. They've been
able to prove that the research that you do with
support from the armed forces is clearly
mission-oriented. And that's fine. They need for
security and defense and attack. Because it's
also called defense. Specific information. And
it seems to me that's one of the purposes of the
institutions of the country to provide what the
government legitimately needs. But it's
important to keep that, I think, separate from
scientific activities. And again, it's groups
that has been done insofar as all these
mission-oriented activities are kept in a
separate organization and separate from the
campus. This was not done on an absolutely
voluntary basis, although the separation has
always been partially done. It was largely
catalyzed by the student protest during the 60s.
At the University of California San Diego? Right.
And I think that's when classified research
stopped being done, is that correct? When it
stopped being done on campus. It's still being
done to a quite large extent off campus.
In these veins of political geography and
political oceanography,
do you feel uneasy ever about the fact that
scientists serve as consultants for private
enterprise and for military as well for the
academic campus? No, I think on the contrary. A
consultation done by scientists is really one of
the ways to keep in touch with the real world. And
scientists otherwise tend very easily to become
too theoretical or irresponsible. If you are
allowed to build airplanes that never have to fly,
then it's possible that the design is not so
crucially thought about. If the airplane has to
fly, then other pressures on you to really solve
problems in a realistic fashion. Correct me if I'm
summing this up incorrectly. It's an awful
phrase. Again, you see Scripps Institution of
Oceanography, then. You see their job as a
combination of work in military, private
enterprise, and private sciences. If you should
like a public institution serving all three
sectors of society. No, I think that... Scripps as
it is should, although it entirely does it, should
serve only
civilian and scientific purposes. Then if the
staff places their capabilities at the disposal
of
industry or to the government as consultants,
They do that normally, but you have to, by rule,
take leave of absence or vacation while you do
that, or do it when you're not serving the
university. So that's very important, of course,
that you deprive the taxpayers of the service that
you have to give them. And particularly since most
people use the proceeds of consultation for their
own personal income, and more rarely for the
benefit of the university. Now, when you came
here, Roger Revelle was the director. Is that
correct? Yes. And he remained director until he
actually went off to Harvard. He sort of wore two
hats here for a while. That's true. OK. Have you
noticed any abrupt change between the direction
of the institution under Revelle and then after
his successors? No, no, everybody's tried to do
the best they can, they could, in their own way, and
each one of the directors have contributed very
great things. For example, again, Roger Wells'
greatness were particularly in the tremendous
inspiration that he gave to everybody and his
ability to
amalgamate and weld everybody together into a
joint effort in fields of importance. In
these efforts, perhaps, he did not have time or so
much understanding for the importance of
sophisticated scientific facilities. He had
largely a Puritan instinct that science should be
done in an inexpensive fashion, which is very
commendable. But for many things in modern
science, that's not so easy. Cyclotrons are hard
to make out of old pipes and things like that.
Professor Nirenberg, Director Nirenberg, for
example, has done a tremendous job in two fields
particularly that I can see, probably more. But
the two that particularly stand out in my mind are
his bringing scripts into the computer era, into
the proper handling of data. Previously, in the
enthusiasm of doing things, lots of data were
collected on shipboard, and then forgotten, and
could not, the way they were handled and stored,
you could never retrieve them. Now, thanks to
Director Nirenberg, essentially, computers
were installed on board. All information that
was, which is so voluminous that it's bound to be
lost unless you do something special,
was immediately retrievable, and that has been
immensely advantageous. Also the introduction
of online computers in campus laboratories and on
shipboard has been much stimulated by him. And
also the creation in the institution of a very
well-organized analytical facility that has a
wide range of sophisticated instrumentation
that is difficult for each individual and his
contract or anything to justify, but which serves
the whole community at the recharge including
students, has been one of the really great
developments that he's done. So each one has
contributed in its own way, I think. All right. Of
what sort of computers is he installed now?
Medium-sized computers of various kinds that are
on board of the ships so that you can put in, first of
all, all the navigation, and you can relate the
navigation and the positions to the scientific
data. That was something that in old times took
many months to go through the ship's logs and find
out where were you when you found such and such a
thing, exactly. Now it's all there right away.
Where did other institutions already utilize
computers on shipboard? That was essentially the
theme of the era. And that happened
simultaneously, I think, at other institutions.
But I'm not sure that it's been so thoroughly
carried out as here. But I wouldn't swear on that.
Look at their facilities. Had other nations
utilized computers on shipboard before the
United States? Again, it came at the same time. And
particularly in France and Germany have always
been rather advanced in the field. The USSR has
been lagging behind, but I think it is coming up
again. But the US has certainly, the United States
have been leading in this because of their leading
role both in software and hardware development.
It has been suggested in another interview that
possibly the age of the great explorations of
oceans is over. Because with the introduction of
computers, shipboard, and so forth, that more and
more analyzing of data will have to be done back in
labs and this sort of thing. That the old idea of the
oceanographer at sea maybe through. I don't think
so at all. No, I don't think so at all. And
particularly with sophisticated ships, with
large ships that are essentially floating
laboratories, you can do more and more
experimental work on board. That is